you will do it it yeah yeah they are
pretty good hey it's me Destin welcome
back to smarter every month day smarter
every day have you ever had four
children you know that four children are
a handful
today I'm smarter every day my wife and
I decide I just show you what the deal
is
question question time what is the most
important relationship in our family why
I said is that gonna happen
no no why why are you saying that did I
tell you to say that no okay
that's just the way it is okay so today
on smarter every day
we are going to go to Iceland because my
wife and I want to go on an anniversary
job we want to go to anniversary
adventures somewhere we haven't been
before and we don't know the culture so
after talking with John Green who said
Iceland is a really great place to go we
decided to go so let's go get smarter
every day in Silfra iceland where you
can scuba dive between the continents
kids make it really hard to travel but
every once in a while we need to go on a
trip that's just us it's like going on
an adventure with your best friend
anyway we love Iceland as a choice
because we didn't know the language we
didn't know the culture we had to figure
all that stuff out together one thing I
really like every time I go to a new
country is to experience the currency
for the first time because that tells
you a little bit about the people lady
with funny hat it's $40 dude with big
nose 80 this is $80 this is not $80 we
usually plan everything out but in this
case we only booked one thing which is
diving at Silfra everything else we
played by ear which is pretty easy
because Iceland is crazy beautiful
we saw geysers we rode four-wheelers we
picked up hitchhikers we visited several
waterfalls which by the way I recorded
for the new channel called the sound
traveler if you're interested go check
it out I think you'll really enjoy it
anyway it was great
and for me the common theme was
connecting with my wife and
strengthening the foundation for our
family and it's pretty easy to tell by
looking at her eyes here that that
seemed to work right so Iceland is cold
like really really cold and we're about
to go
diving here this pot for example is just
a few dozen miles from our dive site is
and those are icebergs I mean they're
beautiful but like icebergs touching
this water and knowing I'm going to get
into it made me appreciate seals on a
completely different level it can shut
off the flow to certain areas in order
to preserve vital areas that makes sense
yeah you remember plate tectonics for my
elementary school where to place called
Silfra and this is where the North
American plate and the Eurasian Plate
which is on the other side of this
valley here this is where they meet and
so we are about to go dive where pointed
out to me patch of cars the North
American plate and the Eurasian Plate
are pulling apart and these divergent
plates are what's called the
mid-atlantic ridge long story short this
is why we have Iceland and it's why you
have both glaciers and volcanoes in the
exact same area creating some incredible
rock formations Silfra is right in the
middle of this this is our dive master
Thibaut he explained it because silver
is fed by glacier water that's been
filtered through volcanic rock for over
thirty years before it reaches the site
it's one of the highest visibility dives
in the world just as a point of
reference this is the visibility my
friend and I experienced during a
shipwreck dive in the Gulf of Mexico
earlier this year it's really neat but
you can only see a few meters in front
of your face Tibo said we're going to
experience over a hundred meters of
visibility at Silph row which is crazy
by the way if Jared and I were still
cold in wetsuits
80-foot below the Gulf of Mexico in
summer how on earth are Tara and I going
to survive eighty foot below the icy
waters of Silfra the answer is a drysuit
water has a thermal conductivity of 0.5
eight watts per meter Kelvin while air
is only 0.024 that means if you're in
direct contact with the water you lose
heat out of your body over 20 times
faster than if you can put a small air
gap between you and the water because of
the simple heat transfer equation this
little air gap and some fuzzy pajamas
are all you need to protect yourself
from rapid heat loss and hypothermia
alright say this is the first time I've
ever had to stay dry before I went scuba
diving because we're getting in a dry
seat and we just met Scott today hey
Scott hey it's important not to
compromise the air gap so you have to
have a really tight seal around your
wrist and neck so you don't spring a
leak the gloves and hood you put on
however intentionally fill with water
and your own body heat heats that water
up which eventually becomes somewhat
tolerable this dive is commonly called
the dive between the continents check
out how beautiful this is
it was super fun to learn about drysuit
diving together it's even more special
to do it in an incredibly awesome place
like Silfra just like our marriage it's
two totally different forces that come
together in this one spot and make
something beautiful a lot of people
don't know this but Terra has more
science degrees than I do she's a
hundred percent on board with everything
I do to try to get smarter and that's
huge I think it's clear that this
channel wouldn't be possible without her
support so happy Anniversary baby
I really miss doing stuff like this with
you and back to the kids and real life
okay I hope you enjoyed this episode of
smarter every day
family's important which is why today's
sponsor is Kiwi crate you know how this
stuff works the company approaches a
YouTube channel and asked to advertise
well this is backwards I like this
company so much because we got them for
Christmas one year and we love them so I
asked them if they would let me
advertise for them on smarter every day
and they said yes so today we're we have
what are those why are you excited about
the Kiwi crate koala crate who's that
who's the koala crate why'd you go for
the blue one
a-doodle crate okay so anyway Kiwi crate
is a really really cool service because
it gets kids involved they have to do
things with their hands so they have to
think and then they have to do which I'm
all for in far everyday I recommend the
seeker great it's my favorite however my
daughter said she likes the doodle crate
you sure you don't like the Tigger great
device the noodle crate so if you would
like to support a smarter every day
please consider going to Kiwi crate comm
a slash smarter and you get a free trial
it's really cool and really worth it
makes really good presents that's it
I'm Destin you get smarter every day
have a good one be anything you want to
say are they really
you're not just saying this while your
skin.you pull it up about the seal right
here and ends up making an incredible
double channel it is and what is this
over here
you're right you're Asian we've said
that can't say it it's your Asian say
you're Asian you're Asian
eurasian plate Tibo taught me how to
unzip yourself
ah you do know what they call a male
puffin right Puff Daddy happy
anniversary